MiFoBio 2016
============
Info provided for registration and poster proposal.


R&D project description
-----------------------
We investigate Web-based, message-driven software architectures for
distributed storage, transfer, management, visualisation, and analysis of
biological microscopy data.

Motivation to participate to MiFoBio 2016
-----------------------------------------
We would like to present the Open Microscopy Environment (OME) software suite
to the biological imaging community as we believe it to be useful to both
biologists and image facility managers: from image acquisition to publication,
OME provides the infrastructure needed to manage the entire process in an
automated, secure, and reliable fashion, catering for the storage, transfer,
management, visualisation, analysis, sharing and publication of image data
and metadata.
As OME developers, we would also like to gather feedback from the imaging
community in order to improve and extend the software to make it more useful.

Poster
------
**Title**: Web-based image import within the Open Microscopy Environment.

**Abstract**. We have extended the Open Microscopy Environment (OME) software
suite with a Web application to import images into OMERO. This new server
application exposes a REST API that allows any Web client to asynchronously
trigger image imports into any OMERO repository available on the network.
Imports are run on behalf of OMERO users but outside of their login sessions
which allows a user to log on an acquisition workstation, trigger the import
and then immediately log out without having to wait for the image data to
be transferred out of the workstation into the OMERO repository. Thus, the
workstation (and the microscope) becomes immediately available to the next
user; moreover, if users are billed for the time that they are logged on an
acquisition workstation, this new server application avoids the user paying
for the time that it takes to transfer their image data into OMERO.

**Keywords**: OME, OMERO, message-driven Web applications, data transfer.

